An introduction to First Kings.
First and Second Kings were originally one volume, which was later made into two.
Jeremiah is believed to be the writer.
First Kings continues where Second Samuel leaves off.
The account covers a period of some 129 years, beginning about 1040 BCE with King David's final days,
and ending in about 911 BCE when King Jahashifat dies.
In the first part of the book, after the death of King David, Israel enjoys peace and prosperity under Solomon's rule.
In the second part, false worship takes root, and Israel is split into two kingdoms.
In chapter 1, Solomon is anointed as King.
In chapter 3, Jehovah blesses King Solomon with extraordinary wisdom, along with riches and glory.
In chapter 4, God's people prosper under Solomon's rule.
Chapters 5 through 8 discuss the construction of the temple, the making of its utensils, and Solomon's dedication prayer.
In chapter 10, the queen of Shiba hears a report about Solomon, and then travels to Jerusalem to see him.
After observing the king's wisdom and prosperity, she says,
Look, I had not been told the half.
In chapter 11, Solomon and disobedience to Jehovah loved many foreign women.
These pagan wives gradually incline Solomon's heart to worship other gods, including Ashtarath and Milcom.
After reigning for 40 years, Solomon dies, and his son Reoboam takes the throne.
In chapter 12, Reoboam promises to add to the already heavy burden on the people.
Ten tribes revolt and make Jeroboam their king.
Reoboam is left with the tribes of Judah and Benjamin.
Jeroboam sets up the worship of golden calves to discourage his subjects from worshiping in Jerusalem.
Idolatry becomes entrenched in the northern kingdom, and this leads to oppression, power struggles, and assassinations.
In chapters 14 and 15, Reoboam and Abijum, after him, allow false worship to take root in the southern kingdom.
Did you know?
About 33 years after Solomon inaugurated the temple, Jehovah allowed Pharaoh's shy shack to plunder its treasures.
This shows that Jehovah is pleased not by impressive buildings, but by pure worship.
In chapter 15, Asa becomes king in Jerusalem, and he does what is right in God's eyes.
He is succeeded by his son, Jahashafat, who imitates his good example.
The next chapter mentions a number of wicked kings in the northern kingdom.
These include Ahab, who marries the pagan princess Jezebel.
She and her husband bring bail worship into the kingdom.
In chapter 18, the prophet Elijah proposes a test on Mount Carmel to show who is the true God, Jehovah or bail.
Jehovah demonstrates that he is the true God.
In chapter 19, Elijah flees for his life when he receives a death threat from Jezebel.
Jehovah appears to Elijah at Mount Horeb and comforts him in a calm, low voice.
He gives Elijah further assignments.
In the final chapter, Ahab disregards the prophet Micaiah's warning against fighting Syria.
As a result, Ahab is killed in battle.
His son Ahaziah takes the throne in Israel.
Later, Jahashafat also dies, and his son Jahorum becomes king in Judah.
As you read first kings, note how false worship leads to great suffering.
See how true worship promotes peace and happiness.
And take comfort that Solomon's wisdom pales in comparison to that of Jesus Christ, the incorruptible king of God's kingdom.